{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf\nisusversion50401 {\*\nisusorigapp Nisus}{\*\nisusorigdate\yr2021\mo12\dy17\hr15\min44 }{\*\nisussysvers 15.2.0}\deff0
{\*\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 ArialMT{\*\falt Arial};}
{\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Arial-BoldMT{\*\falt Arial};}
{\f3\froman\fcharset204 PTSerif-Regular{\*\falt PT Serif};}}
{\colortbl ;\red9\green79\blue209 ;\red0\green0\blue255 ;}\nisusrevtypes0\donotshowinsdel1
{\*\nisustoctable
{\nisustoc\tcf68 {\nisustocname Default TOC}{\*\nisustoctabrep  }{\*\nisustocretrep  }{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 1}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 2}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 3}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 4}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 5}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 6}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 7}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 8}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 9}}\nisusactivetoc68 }
{\*\nisusxetable
{\nisusxe\xef68 {\nisusxename Default Index}{\nisusxeheaderstyle Index Heading}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 1}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 2}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 3}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 4}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 5}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 6}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 7}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 8}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 9}{\*\fldinst INDEX \\k ". " \\g \endash  \\e "\tab " \\l ", " \\f D}}\nisusactivexe68 }
{\stylesheet
{\s104\snext104\f0 \ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\hyphpar1\li0\lin0\fi0\ri0\rin0 Normal;}
{\s105\snext105\sbasedon104\f0\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\hyphpar1\li0\lin0\fi0\ri0\rin0 Header;}
{\s106\snext106\sbasedon104\f0\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\hyphpar1\li0\lin0\fi0\ri0\rin0 Footer;}
{\*\cs107\ul\cf2 Hyperlink;}}
\defformat {\*\generator Nisus Writer Pro 3.4.1 [0504.0104.01]}{\info {\*\nisusgmtoffset -5:00}{\author Rick}{\creatim\yr2015\mo2\dy19\hr11\min29 }{\revtim\yr2025\mo1\dy16\hr9\min15 }
{\printim\yr2021\mo6\dy16\hr16\min54 }\nofpages22 }{\*\userprops }\nisusrulerunits0\nisusstatusbar1\nisusareaid1\viewkind1\viewzk1\nisusviewruler1\nisusviewrulerh1\nisusviewrulerv0\nisusviewtoolbar1\nisusviewtooldrawer1\nisusviewtoolswidth200\nisusviewpagenumtype1\nisusviewrulericons0\donotshowcomments1
{\*\nisusviewsettings\viewkind4\viewscale125 {\nisusnavsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\width 160}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\mode toc}{\*\sort location}}{\nisuscommentsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 2}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}{\nisusrevisionsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 1}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 4}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}}
{\*\nisusviewsettings\viewkind1\viewzk1 {\nisusnavsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\width 160}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\mode toc}{\*\sort location}{\*\closedtochandles }}{\nisuscommentsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 2}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}{\nisusrevisionsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 1}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 4}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}}
{\*\nisusviewsettings\nisusviewknew102\viewscale100 {\nisusnavsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\width 160}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\mode toc}{\*\sort location}}{\nisuscommentsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 2}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}{\nisusrevisionsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 1}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 4}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}}
{\*\nisusviewsettings\nisusviewknew103\viewscale100 {\nisusnavsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\width 160}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\mode toc}{\*\sort location}}{\nisuscommentsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 2}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}{\nisusrevisionsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 1}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 4}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}}
{\*\nisusviewsettings\nisusviewknew104\viewscale100 {\nisusnavsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\width 160}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\mode toc}{\*\sort location}}{\nisuscommentsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 2}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}{\nisusrevisionsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 1}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 4}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}}
\nisusareasplitv0
{\*\nisuswindow\x292\y155\w840\actualw1040\h720 }
\nisusprintguides0\nisusprintinvis0\nisusprintcomments0\nisusprintrevpages0\nshwinv0\nshwpg1\nisusinlinespell1\nisushyphnone\spltpgpar\nisusselectstart23862\nisusselectlength0\fet2\ftnbj\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1553\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\pgnstart1\nocolbal\widowctrl \f0
\sectd\endnhere\cols1\ltrsect\colbalsxn0\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1553\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\guttersxn0\headery720\footery180\pgncont\pgndec\sxnstarts1\sxnrestart\sxndec
{\header\plain\pard\s105\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\f0\fs24 }
{\footer\plain\pard\s106\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\f0\fs24 }
\deftab720 {\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f1 Rick Sowash\rquote s Compositions for Cello:\par
\par
Simply by asking, any cellist can receive free PDFs of the full score-and-parts for any or all of my cello works as well as links to mp3 recordings.   \par
\par
Email me at:  }}{\field {\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "mailto:rick@sowash.com"}{\fldrslt {\cs107\f1\ul\ulc1\cf1 rick@sowash.com}}}{\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f1 .\par
\par
It\rquote s my policy to give away my music to anyone who is interested in discovering it.  No permission is required to print the PDFs or perform the music.  \par
\par
My musical ideas came to me for free; I simply pass them along.\par
\par
Ask for a bunch of pieces!  You\rquote re not greedy.  You\rquote re curious! \par
\par
My scores and parts are professional in appearance, carefully rendered in the computer notation program Finale.  Page-turns are calculated for ease and convenience.  \par
\par
Thank you in advance for allowing me to share my work with you.\par
\par }}
{\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f1 \par
{\f2\b FOR SOLO CELLO:\par
\par }
Little Suite in G;  four movements (2008)\par
\tab  The first movement is a prelude, the second blues-y, the third is minuet-like, the last evokes American folk hymns.\par
\tab Duration:  11:30\par
\par
Sunday Morning Variations (2012)\par
\tab Variations on an original tune reminiscent of a folk hymn.\par
\tab Duration:  7:23\par
\par
Serpent Mound (1999)\par
\tab Brooding, mysterious tone poem evoking America\rquote s most famous ancient earthworks.\par
\tab Duration:  3:50\par
\par
Aerie Variations (2021)\par
\tab Alternately light-hearted and mystical variations on an original hymn-like tune.\par
\tab Duration:  4:30.\par
\par
Bike Trail Variations (2021)\par
\tab Lively variations on a noble theme.\par
\tab Duration:  4:30.\par
\par
Hither and Yon (2022)\par
\tab A \lquote journey\rquote  piece:  A - B - C - B - A.  Strong, simple tunes mostly in C major and B minor.\par
\tab Duration:  8:25.\par
\par
Prelude & Fantasy Variations; two movements (2022)\par
\tab Prelude in E minor is cautious and traditional-sounding.  \par
by contrast, the Fantasy Variations in E major has a sweeping, improvisatory character.\par
\tab Duration:  9 min.\par
\par
Scherzo Serioso -  (2022)\par
\tab A \lquote serious joke\rquote  using the opening motif from Beethoven #5 as a point of departure for leaping to places quite different from where he went.  \par
\tab Duration:  3:43.\par
\par
Andante Intimo - (2022)\par
\tab Heartfelt, intimate music.  Duration:  3:34.\par
\par
Variations on a Pirate Song - (2022)\par
\tab The \lquote pirate song\rquote  is original though in the manner of  \ldblquote Yo ho ho & a Bottle of Rum.\rdblquote    The variations are sometimes funny, sometimes serious.\par
\tab Duration:  10:32\par
 \par }}
{\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f1 The Plain Truth - (2022) - \par
\tab Duration:  3:45\par
\par
Solitary Walker - (2022) - \par
\tab Duration:  3:50\par
\par
Far and Near - (2022) \par
\tab Duration:  5:30\par
\line Article of Faith - (2022) \par
\tab Duration:  9:50\par
\par
Ohio Dreams - (2022) \par
\tab Duration:  7:35\par
\par
Like an Improvisation - (2022)  \par
\tab Duration:  3:40\par
\par
There and Back Again - (2022) \par
\tab Duration: 5:40\par
\par
Fugue - (2022) \par
\tab Duration:  4:10\par
\line To and Fro - (2022) - \par
\tab Duration:  4:50\par
\par
Blues - (2022) - Had he lived longer, Gershwin might have written this.\par
\tab Duration:  4:30\par
\line Chorale Prelude - (2022) - 2:55   \ldblquote Lasst uns erfreuen\rdblquote  is played pizzicato while an original tune, in counterpoint, is bowed.\par
\par
Circus March - (2022) - \par
\tab Humorous, Ivesian piece, quotes the famous Fucik circus march.\par
\tab Duration:  2:30\par }}
{\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f1 \par
The Spring in the Meadow for solo cello.  (2022)\par
\tab For Beginner to Early Intermediate players, in G major, 3/4.  Main theme is like a folk-hymn.  \par
\tab Duration:  3:52\par
\par
Arabesque for solo cello.  (2023).  An \ldblquote Orientale\rdblquote  with lots of flatted seconds.  Marked \ldblquote vigoroso,\rdblquote  it\rquote s fun to play.\par
\tab Duration:  3:25.\par
\par
A Pirate\rquote s Christmas or The Best Loved Carols of Billy Bones.  (2023)\par
\tab Mixes gruff, original \lquote pirate\rquote  tunes with familiar carols with lots of interruptions.  \par
\tab Duration:  5:44\par
\par
Story Without Words (7/24)  Uplifting, mysterious, with a religious feeling.\par
\tab Duration:  5:07\par
\par
\par
{\f2\b FOR CELLO & PIANO:\par
\par }
The Cliffs Above the Clear Fork for cello & piano (1980)\par
\tab Mysterious & beautiful, evoking a pioneer cemetery on a bluff overlooking Ohio\rquote s Clear Fork River.\par
\tab Duration:  6:38\par
\par
Harvest Hymn & Harvest Dance: Homage to Willa Cather for cello & piano (1980)\par
\tab A tender folk hymn followed by a robust, American-sounding \lquote barn dance\rquote  in 7/8.\par
\tab Duration:  6 min.\par
\par
Adagio for cello & piano (1980)\par
\tab Impassioned, alternately brooding and bright.\par
\tab Duration:  4 min.\par
\par
Sonata for Cello & Piano; three movements (1990)\par
\tab A virtuoso work, broad & expansive.  Imagine Beethoven and Samuel Barber working together to create this music.\par
\tab Duration:  22:47\par
\par
Largo Religioso for cello & piano (1990) \par
\tab The second movement of my cello sonata, it can stand alone as a separate piece.\par
\tab Duration:  3:26\par
\par
Dinner at Louisa\rquote s for cello & piano (1993) \par
\tab The 3rd movement of my Cape May Suite depicts a couple dining at a great little restaurant.  It can be performed as a stand-alone work.\par
\tab Duration:  3:44\par
\par
Lullabye for Kara: for cello & piano (2002)\par
\tab Sentimental, blues-y, sleepy, a little like Gershwin, evoking \ldblquote The Old South.\rdblquote \par
\tab Duration:  7:20\u160 ? \tab \par
\par
A Hero\rquote s Prayer for cello & piano (2000, rev. 2002)\par
\tab The Cincinnati Ballet used this piece as the finale of a ballet titled \ldblquote A Hero\rquote s Prayer.\rdblquote \par
\tab Duration:  5:23\par
\par
World Enough and Time, cello/piano reduction of a rhapsody for cello & orchestra (1990)\par
\tab A soberly joyful and tentatively hopeful meditation on the end of the Cold War.\par
\tab Duration:  16:42\par
\par
Curly Prays for cello and piano (2007)\par
\tab Homage to Richard Rodgers, quotes \ldblquote Oh What a Beautiful Mornin\rquote .\par
\tab Duration:  4:23\par
\par
Dark Forest for cello & piano (1988, rev. 2013)\par
\tab Titled after a Russian proverb:  \ldblquote The heart of another is a dark forest.\rdblquote  \tab \par
\tab\tab I. The Ballad of Red Fox, \par
\tab\tab II. Speak Gently, Spring, \par
\tab\tab III. Twig of Willow\par
\tab\tab\tab Duration:  10:30\par
\par
October Reveries for cello & piano (1985, rev. 2013)\par
\tab  \tab I. Elm Trees in Moonlight, \par
\tab\tab II. Where Quietness Keeps Her Dwelling, \par
\tab\tab III. The Wild Wine of October\par
\tab\tab\tab Duration: 9 min.\par
\par
Spiritus for cello & piano.  (1978, rev. and expanded 2022)\par
\tab Evokes the religious feeling of \lquote stained glass windows\rquote  with a contrasting lullaby section in the middle.  Written for specifically for church services.   \par
\tab\tab Duration: 4:36   \par
\par
The Neverending Melody for cello & piano.  (2022)\par
\tab One long, beautiful, uninterrupted, neo-Romantic melody.\par
\tab\tab Duration 5:03.\par
\par
A Winter Night for cello & piano.  (2022)\par
\tab Homage to Sibelius in the Dorian mode.\par
\tab\tab Duration:  7:30.\par
\par }}
{\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f1 Ohio Dreams for cello and piano.  (2022)  \par
\tab Visions of my homeland, past and future.  A bucolic boyhood, the manufacturing muscle (long since gone), hopeful ambition alongside disillusionment, the mysteriousness of the ancient earthworks.  Ambiguous, probing music, some parts are beautiful while in other parts the music seems to be \ldblquote finding its way\rdblquote  \par }}
{\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f1\tab\tab Duration 7:13\par
\par
A Simple Tune for cello & piano.  2022.\par
\tab Contented, bucolic music in D major and 4/4 time.  A sweet tune at the start and finish with a little \ldblquote sourness\rdblquote  in the middle, to offer a pleasing contrast.\par
\tab Duration:  5:00.\par
\par
The Mystic for cello & piano.  2022.\par
\tab In Dorian mode, mysterious, contemplative, with a moment of ecstatic transcendence mid-way through.   \par
\tab Duration:  4:30.\par
\par
Kit & Caboodle for cello & piano.  2022.\par
\tab Whimsical variations on an original pentatonic folk song-like tune that brings to mind the great cowboy songs.\par
\tab Duration:  5:44.\par
\par
Adagietto for cello & piano.  2022.\par
\tab Lush, poignant, heartfelt.  Not much happens in this piece;  it is static but gorgeous.  It\rquote s not about a conflict or a journey;  rather it is about being in a beautiful place and enjoying it.\par
\tab Duration:  4:55.\par
\par
The Last Storm of Winter for cello & piano.  2023.\par
\tab A strong, dramatic, demanding piece with dark energy and soaring neo-Romantic melodies.  Requires very strong players.  In G minor and 3/4 time with no meter changes.  \par
\tab Duration:  7:15.\par
\par
The Gates of Wonder for cello & piano.  2023.\par
\tab The gates open slowly and impressively.  Wonders are perceived within.  The gates close.\par
\tab Duration:  6:06.\par
\par
Hidden Valley for cello & piano.  2023.\par
{\nowidctlpar\tab The A section has us in the dark and gloomy mountains of D minor.  The B section evokes a valley that is sunny and pleasant.  We return to the A section\rquote s gloomy mountains but retaining a little of the pleasant valley.   \tab\tab Duration:  6:20\par
\par
Declamation for cello & piano.  2023.  Begins as a proclamation, a little like \lquote Fanfare for the Common Man,\rquote  grows increasingly calm and ends in quiet serenity.   \par
\tab Duration:  4:49\par
\par
Sweetness & Light for cello & piano.  2023.  Opening music is \ldblquote sweet.\rdblquote   The music moves toward \ldblquote light\rdblquote  and ends with a blissful image of eternal light. \par
\tab Duration:  7:20\par
\par }
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 Solemn the Night May Be for cello & piano.  2023.  \ldblquote Solemn the beauty of the night may be but it cannot be sad with the leaves in the breeze and the stars going forth on their golden traffickings.\rdblquote \par
\tab Duration:  5:50\par }
{\nowidctlpar \par
Joy in the Morning for cello & piano.  2023.  Neo-classical in character, this music might be described as \ldblquote American Baroque.\rdblquote   Copland meets Bach.  Confident, joyful, grounded in tradition.  Good for playing in church.\par
\tab Duration:  3:40\par
\par
\par
{\f2\b FOR FLUTE, OBOE & CELLO\par }
\par }
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 Bird\rquote s Eye Suite for flute, oboe & cello.  8 movements.  39:11   2-3/24\par
Collectively titled a suite, each these movements of this work could be played as \ldblquote stand alone\rdblquote  pieces in worship services or recitals.  The mood is optimistic and the music is forthright and confident.  Requires good players but not virtuosos.\par
\par
\tab I. in E minor - 5:09  (Noble Hawk)\par
\tab II. in G minor - 5:26 (Ruminative Owl)\par
\tab III. in D major - 4:37 (Wood Thrush)\par
\tab IV. in D major - 2:08 (Zany Mockingbird)\par
\tab V. - Fugue in C major - 4:48 (Serene Meadowlark)\par
\tab VI. - in E major - 7:00 (Great Blue Heron)\par
\tab VII. -  in A minor -  5:30  (Mourning Dove)\par
\tab VIII. - in D major -  4:52  (Exuberant Cardinal)\par
\par }
{\nowidctlpar \par }
\par
{\f2\b FOR TWO CELLOS & PIANO}\par
\par
Largo Religioso for two cellos & piano; 1990, rev. 2016.\par
\tab Duration:  3:30\par
\par
Largo Religioso for two cellos & piano; 1990, rev. 2016, expanded 2022.\par
\tab Duration:  5:00\par
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 Hymn Tune in D major for two cellos & (optional) piano.  2023.\par
\tab Cello I is written for a student who is at the early Suzuki Book 2 level while the teacher plays the more advanced Cello II part.  The piano part is optional; the piece is effective as a cello duo.\par
\tab Duration 3:50.\par
\par
\par }
{\f2\b FOR CLARINET & CELLO}\par
\par
Born of the Same Wild Mother: A Wintry Suite for clarinet & cello (1993, rev. 2001)\par
\tab Five movements.  The music is a little dark, chilly, bracing, sometimes tender.\par
\tab Duration:  12:11\par
\par
Three Bagatelles for clarinet & cello; three movements\u160 ? (also available for violin & cello) (2005)\u160 ? \par
\tab Short, humorous movements.\u160 ? A tribute to Laurel & Hardy.  Easy and fun to play.\u160 ?\par
\tab Duration:  4:30 \u160 ?\par
\par
Glory Hallelujah for clarinet & cello;  four movements (2013)\par
\tab Movements I, II and IV are a little jazzy; III is marked \ldblquote Religioso.\rdblquote   Last movement quotes \tab\ldblquote Glory, glory, halleujah\rdblquote  from \ldblquote The Battle Hymn of the Republic.\rdblquote   \par
\tab Duration:  11:20 \par
\par
Calloway Suite for clarinet and cello, revised from earlier works in 2014.\par
\tab A cycle of seven short, humorous pieces in tribute to Cab Calloway.\par
\tab Duration 16 minutes.\par
\par
Condolence for clarinet and cello; 2023.  Serious, yet sweetly sad, appropriate for a memorial service. \u160 ?\par
\tab Duration:  4:31\par
\par
{\f2\b FOR VIOLIN & CELLO}\par
\par
Convivial Suite for violin & cello; six movements (1999)\par
\tab Two friends sharing very merry music, except for sorrows shared in the dark Adagio.\par
\tab I. Fugue, II. Waltz, III. Blues, IV. March, V. Adagio, VI. Finale\par
\tab Duration:  13:10\par
\par
A Suite of Virtues: Homage to John Chapman; duo for violin & cello; seven movements (2004)\par
\tab Homage to John Chapman, better known as \ldblquote Johnny Appleseed.\rdblquote \par
\tab I. Optimism, II. Enterprise, III. Perseverance, IV. Certitude, \par
\tab V. Seclusion, VI. Joyfulness, VII. Faith \par
\tab Duration:  19:30\par
\par
Three Bagatelles for violin & cello; three movements\u160 ? (also available for clarinet & cello) (2005)\u160 ? \par
\tab Short, humorous movements.\u160 ? A tribute to Laurel & Hardy.  Easy and fun to play.\u160 ?\par
\tab Duration:  4:30 \u160 ?\par
\par
Octagoncertino for vln. & cello;  three movements.  2023.\par
\tab Written for a couple presenting home concerts in their octagonal home in rural Connecticut.  Stylistically influenced by the music of Ralph Vaughan Williams.\par
\tab Duration:  15:00\par
\par
Agreeable Suite for violin & cello; five movements.  2023.\par
\tab Movement titles tell the story:  Agreeable Fugue, Agreeable Waltz, Agreeable Blues, Disagreeable Scherzo, A Major Apology, Agreeable Finale.  Mostly in D minor and D major.  Good tunes.  Few meter changes. \par
\tab Duration:  16:00\par
\par
Morning and Evening Music for violin & cello; two movements.  2023.\par
\tab Cheerful morning music, serene evening music.\par
\tab Duration:  6:30\par
\par
A Prayer for Ukraine for violin & cello.  2023.\par
\tab Stern, strong, sorrowful, determined, impassioned music.  Climactic sections  with double stops are inscribed \ldblquote like a Slavic men\rquote s chorus.\rdblquote     In 4/4.\par
\tab Duration:  5:31\par
\par
\par
{\f2\b FOR CELLO & DOUBLE BASS}\par
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 Anvil Suite for cello & double bass.  12/23\par
\tab Five movements.  Dark, mostly in minor keys, with flashes of beauty and merriment.\par
\tab Duration:  16:32 \par }
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 \par }
{\f2\b FOR TWO CELLOS\par }
\par
Spring Fever Suite for two cellos; six movements (1989)\par
\tab Music evocative of Springtime: Dance, Love, Nature and \ldblquote Take Me out to the Ballgame.\rdblquote \par
\tab I. Peasant Dance, II. Gershwin-esque Love Song, III. Ferns Unfolding,\par
\tab IV. Baseball Scherzo, V. Daffodils, VI. Barn Dance\par
\tab Duration:  21:18\par
\par
Tribute to Ukraine for two cellos (2022)\par
\tab Stern, strong, sorrowful, determined, impassioned music.  In 3/4.\par
\tab Duration:   3:00.\par
\par
A Prayer for Ukraine for two cellos (2022)\par
\tab Stern, strong, sorrowful, determined, impassioned music.  Climactic sections  with double stops are inscribed \ldblquote like a Slavic men\rquote s chorus.\rdblquote     In 4/4.\par
\tab Duration:  5:30\par
\par
Happy at Home for two cellos. 2022\par
\tab in celebration of our 50th wedding anniversary.\par
\tab\tab Duration 4:30.\par
\par
Sketches for two cellos; independent pieces, a work in progress (2022)\par
\tab titles to date:\par
Adagio for 2 Cellos - Duration:  6:15\par
Canonic Scherzo - 3:30\par
Fugue in 7/8 and Chorale - 5:00\par
Giocoso Fugue - 2:30\par
The Neverending Melody - 5:30\par
October Fugue - 3:00\par
Fugue of Gratitude - 3:35\par
Joyful Fugue - 5:15\par
Mystic Fugue - 3:40\par
Ostinato in A minor - 3:15\par
Skyline Scherzo - 3:45\par
Strange Fugue - 2:23\par
The Magnificent Twosome - 3:35\par
A Winter Night - 4:15\par
Channeling Stephen Foster - 6:50\par
On the Edge of the Storm - 7:00\par
Imbued with the Truth - 7:30\par
Elder and Youngster (Two Shaker Hymns) - 2:30\par
Canon and Caccia - 4:40\par
A Canon in D minor - 3:40\par
Certitude - 5:33\par
\par
Upside Down Twinkle: A Passacaglia for two cellos \par
\tab Cello I = teacher, Cello II = beginner student\par
\tab An upside down \ldblquote Twinkle, Twinkle\rdblquote  is the bass line which keeps repeating while the higher cello does amusing acrobatics above.\par
\tab Duration:  4:48.\par
\par
{\f2\b FOR FRENCH HORN & CELLO}\par
\par
Majesty for French horn & cello.  (2024)  Regal music.\par
\tab Duration:  5:10.  \par
\par
{\f2\b FOR FLUTE & CELLO}\par
\par
A Christmas Ceremony for flute & cello; five movements (available for clarinet & cello) (2011)\par
\tab Written for use at weddings and worship services, but also suitable for recitals.  The piece \tab can be played any time of year;  just drop the word \ldblquote Christmas.\rdblquote \par
\tab I. Prelude, II. Processional, III. The Ceremony, IV. Recessional, V. Postlude\par
\tab Duration:  13:27\par
\par
Morning & Evening for flute and cello;  two movements.  2023.\par
\tab I. Morning Music\par
\tab II. Evening Music\par
\tab Duration:  6:00\par
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 Duo for flute & cello \ldblquote Simple and fresh and fair.\rdblquote   2023.\par
\tab Title comes from Walt Whitman\rquote s poem \ldblquote The First Dandelion\rdblquote \par
\tab\tab Three movements.  Duration:  13:20.\par }
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 Oasis Suite for flute & cello  2024\par
\tab Four movements.  Tuneful and tonal.  The first movement depicts increasing thirst and then a bubbling spring.\par
\tab Duration:  13:44\par }
\par
\par
\par
{\f2\b FOR CELLO & VOICE}\par
\par
Bright April for mezzo soprano & cello; poems by Sara Teasdale (1980)\par
\tab A cycle setting to music six short, innocent, wistful love poems; a personal favorite of mine.\par
\tab Duration:  12:15\par
\par
Clean Up! for soprano & cello;  text by G.B. Shaw.  2010, rev. 2014.  Short, funny.\par
\par
Night Thoughts for soprano & cello;  text by R.L. Stevenson.  1986, rev. 2014.  \par
\tab Thoughts induced by looking up at the stars.\par
\tab Duration:  4:10\par
\par
Songs of Assiduity for mezzo-soprano, cello & piano; texts by Marcius Willson (1998)\par
\tab Texts from a Victorian primer intended to build character in young readers. Humorous.\par
\tab I. How Very Small, II. Coral Insects, III. A Thoughtful Boy\par
\tab Duration:  5 min.\par
\par
Calloway Songs for soprano & cello; texts mostly by R.S. rev. from earlier works in 2014.\par
\tab A cycle of seven short, humorous, more or less sacred songs in tribute to Cab Calloway.\par
\tab Duration 16 minutes.\tab \par
\par
\par
{\f2\b FOR FLUTE, CELLO AND PIANO:\par }
\par
Trio #1 for flute, cello and piano: Seasonal Breezes , four movements (2014)\par
\tab I. Spring Breeze,  II. Summer Breeze,  III. Autumn Breeze,  IV. Winter Breeze\par
\tab Duration:  12 min.\par
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 Trio #2 for flute, cello & piano:  Sylvan America; four movements depicting four regions of the US. (2022)\par
\tab Duration:  23 min.\par
\par
Trio #3 for flute, cello & piano \ldblquote Cheerfulness Breaks In.\rdblquote   2023.\par
\tab\tab Two movements.  I. Dolorosa (Sadly), II. Allegramente (Cheerfully)\par
\tab Total duration:  11:30\par
\par
Trio #4 for flute, cello & piano:  Songs of Myself    12/23\par
\tab Two movements:  I. Song of Myself as I Would Be,  II.  Song of Myself as I Am.  \ldblquote Know thyself,\rdblquote  counseled Socrates.\par
\tab Duration:  13:34.\par }
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 Trio #5 for flute, cello & piano:  A Pirate Christmas  6:22    12/23\par
\tab Medley of original \lquote pirate songs\rquote  and three familiar Christmas carols.\par
\par }
\par
{\f2\b FOR PIANO TRIO:\par
\par }
Piano Trio #1:  \ldblquote Four Seasons in Bellville\rdblquote ; four movements (1977)\par
\tab Four seasons pass serenely in an Ohio village.\par
\tab I. Winter: Adagietto, II.  Spring:  Allegro moderato\par
\tab III. Summer:  Molto Allegro, continues without a pause into IV. Autumn: Largo\par
\tab Duration:  25 min.\par
\par
Piano Trio #2: \ldblquote Orientale and Galop\rdblquote ; two movements (1980)\par
\tab Combines quasi-Middle Eastern gestures with Americana.\par
\tab Duration:  10:40\par
\par
Piano Trio #3:  \ldblquote A Christmas Divertimento\rdblquote ; five movements (1983)\par
\tab Original music except for the last movement\rquote s variations on \ldblquote The Boar\rquote s Head Carol.\rdblquote \par
\tab Duration:  21 min.\par
\par
Piano Trio #4;  two movements (1984)\par
\tab A thorny and tempestuous first movement; an expansive, beautiful second movement.\par
\tab Duration:  8:10\par
\par
Piano Trio #5 \ldblquote Eroica\rdblquote ; three movements (2000)\par
\tab Heartfelt, Neo-Romantic music, reminiscent of Tchaikovsky but with an American sound.\par
\tab Duration:  28:15\par
\par
Piano Trio #6 \ldblquote Brickdust and Buttermilk\rdblquote  (2023)\par
\tab A single-movement work with three distinctive sections:  A - B - A.  Just as the Shakers mixed brickdust and buttermilk to make the rust-colored paint that decorates their furniture, this piece establishes two contrasting musics, in Sections A and B, and then mixes those elements together in the final section, achieving a reconciliation of opposites.  \par
\tab Duration:  10:48\par
\par
\par
{\f2\b TRIOS FOR CLARINET, CELLO & PIANO:\par }
\par
Trio #1 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote Voyage of the Spirit\rdblquote ; four movements (1998)\par
\tab Mysterious, then romantic, finally exuberant.\u160 ? \par
\tab Duration:  17:44\par
\par
Trio #2 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote Enchantment of April\rdblquote ; three movements\u160 ?(2002)\par
\tab Lush, romantic, springtime music.  Slow movement is the most beautiful I\rquote ve written.\par
\tab Duration:  20:09\par
\par
Trio #3 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote Shadows of November\rdblquote ; three movements\u160 ?(2002)\u160 ?\par
\tab Outer movements are darkly energetic, middle movement is tender and sad.\u160 ? \par
\tab Duration:  15:24\par
\par
Trio #4 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote Conversation of the Trees\rdblquote ; five movements\u160 ?(2002)\par
\tab All three instruments are made from wood, after all.  Here, their respective trees converse.\tab \par
\tab Duration:  26:18\tab \par
\par
Trio #5 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote in the classical style\rdblquote ; four movements\u160 ?(2002)\par
\tab A tongue-in-cheek homage to the great classical composers, especially Beethoven and \tab\tab Schubert.  I. Sonata-allegro form, II. Theme & variations, III. Minuet, IV. Rondo finale\par
\tab Duration:  26:30\par
\par
Trio #6 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote Goddess of the Moon\rdblquote ; five movements\u160 ?(2002)\par
\tab A night-time piece, ambiguous, impressionistic, nocturnal, very beautiful\u160 ?but a little strange.\par
\tab I. Prologue, II. Nocturne, III. Interlude, IV. Scherzo, V. Epilogue\par
\tab Duration:  27:12\par
\par
Trio #7 for A clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote The Philosopher visits a Country Fair\rdblquote (2003)\par
\tab Snappy, short, funny, a little like Bernstein\rquote s Candide Overture. \par
\tab Duration:  5:45\par
\par
Trio #8 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote Two Self-Portraits\rdblquote ; two movements\u160 ?(2003)\par
\tab I. Self-Portrait as a fool, II. Self-Portrait as a sage.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Duration:  12:56 \par
\par
Trio #9 for clarinet, cello & piano:\u160 ? \ldblquote Five Women\rdblquote ; five movements\u160 ?(2003)\par
\tab Portraits of five women I love.  Niece, aunt, friends and wife.\par
\tab Duration:  18:09\par
\par
Trio #10 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote Winds of May\rdblquote ;\u160 ? four movements\u160 ?(2003)\par
\tab Windy, fresh, intimate music.\par
\tab I.  Morning, II. Deep Forest, III. Wildflowers, IV. Sunset \par
\tab Duration:  12:25\par
 \par
Trio #11 for clarinet, cello & piano:\u160 ?\ldblquote We Sang, We Danced\rdblquote ;\u160 ? four movements\u160 ?(2003)\par
\tab Good times remembered nostalgically.  The last movement is a tango.\par
\tab Duration:  16:23\par
\par
Trio #12 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote Voyageurs\rdblquote ;\u160 ? four movements\u160 ?(2003)\par
\tab Powerful and compelling, an epic homage to and evocation of Canada.\par
\tab I. Geese in Flight, II. Song of the Voyageurs, III. Starshadows on Snow, \par
\tab IV. A Majestic Land\par
\tab Duration:  28 min.\par
\par
Trio #13 for clarinet, cello & piano:\u160 ? \ldblquote Passacaglia & Fugue\rdblquote ;\u160 ? two movements\u160 ?(2004)\par
\tab Sad and furious, one of my strongest works. \par
\tab Duration:  16:40\par
\par
The View from Carew:\u160 ? Romance for clarinet, cello & piano\u160 ?(2000)\par
\tab Neo-romantic, sad and beautiful.  A reduction of the 2nd mov\rquote t of my Clarinet concerto\par
\tab Duration:  9 min. \par
\par
Concerto for Cello & Strings with A clarinet (reduction for clarinet, cello & piano)\par
\tab four movements\u160 ?(2006)\par
\tab I. Hymns & Fugues,  II. Bulgarian Blues,  III. Sorbet,  IV. Finale\par
\tab Duration:  22:40\par
\par
\par
{\f2\b FOR PIANO TRIO PLUS A WIND INSTRUMENT:\par
\par }
Daweswood for violin, clarinet, cello & piano;\u160 ? three movements\u160 ?(1980)\u160 ? \par
\tab I. The Bud, II. The Blossom, III. The Berry.\par
\tab Cheerful, serene meditations on the lifecycle of plants.\u160 ?\par
\tab Duration:  15:38\par
\par
Anecdotes and Reflections: A Portrait of America for violin, Bb clarinet, cello & piano;\u160 ? \par
\tab six movements (1989)\par
\tab A long, eclectic work, attempting to express the staggering diversity of American culture.  Movements I and II, III and IV, V and VI can be played as separate, stand-alone, two-movement works.  In other words, all six movements don\rquote t have to be played in the same concert.\par
\tab Duration:  38:39\par
\par
Icons:  Gershwin & Sousa for violin, Bb clarinet, cello & piano;  two movements. (1989)\par
\tab Homages, first tender, then zesty, to two great American composers, these are movements II and VI from Anecdotes and Reflections, often performed together.\par
\tab Duration:  12:40\par
\par
A Perfect Day for Sailing for violin, Bb clarinet, cello & piano (1989)\par
\tab Exciting, breezy, outdoors-y music, like sailing.  This is movement I from Anecdotes and \tab\tab Reflections\par
\tab Duration:  5:33\par
\par
Three Pieces for violin, Bb clarinet, cello & piano (1989)\par
\tab I. Immigrants, II. Portrait of a River, III. Opposites Reconciled\par
  \tab These are movements I, IV and V from Anecdotes and Reflections.\par
\tab Duration:  22:30\par
\par
Appalachian Trail Suite for French horn, violin, cello & piano  four movements (1992)\par
\tab Vigorous, outdoors-y music charged with the spirit of adventure.\par
\tab I. Amicalola Falls, II. Dragon\rquote s Tooth, III. Sage\rquote s Ravine, IV. Katahdin.  The third movement is sometimes played as a stand-alone work.\par
\tab Duration:  31:50\par
\par
Cape May Suite for oboe, violin, cello & piano four movements (1993)\par
\tab A musical visit to the seaside resort town of Cape May, New Jersey.\par
\tab I. Morning at Seaside, II. Victorian Gardens, III. Dinner at Louisa\rquote s,\par
\tab IV. Ghostly Waltzes at Congress Hall\par
\tab Duration:  23:07\par
\par
A Christmas Legend: Sir Gawain & the Green Knight for violin, trumpet, cello & piano; \par
\tab five movements (1979, rev. 2011)\par
\tab A fairy tale-like tone poem in a style blending English Renaissance and American musics.\par
\tab I. Arthur's Court at Christmas & Hunting Scenes, \par
\tab II. Seduction & Sorcery\par
\tab III. Gawain's Journey, \par
\tab IV. Gawain's Humiliation & Wisdom, \par
\tab V. The Green Knight\par
{\*\nisusscroll\nisusarea1\xoffset0\yoffset2 }\tab Duration:  23:13\par
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 This I Believe for flute, oboe & two cellos.  2023.\par
\tab A statement of core values expressed in music.\par
\tab Duration: 5:33\par }
\par
\par
{\f2\b FOR PIANO QUARTET:}\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 The Frog & the Princess, a tone poem for piano quartet.  (2023)\par
\tab Retells the Grimm Bros. fairy tale \ldblquote The Princess and the Frog\rdblquote  but from the frog\rquote s point of view.  Somewhat in the manner of Prokofiev\rquote s \ldblquote Peter and the Wolf\rdblquote  but without a narrator.\par
\tab Duration:  12:40\par
\par
{\f2\b FOR PIANO QUINTET:}\par }
{\nowidctlpar\f0\ldblquote Ascendance\rdblquote  for piano + string quartet.  one movement   2025    \par
\tab Intense, sublime, transcendental music.  Finished on my 75th birthday.{\nisusselectcaret \par }
\tab Duration:  6:00\f1 \par }
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\tab \par }
\par
{\f2\b FOR STRING TRIO:\par }
\par
String Trio #1:  \ldblquote A Christmas Rondo\rdblquote   one mov\rquote t   10:30   (1976, rev. 2011)\par
\tab An original carol alternates with familiar but lesser known traditional Christmas carols.\par
\tab Duration:  10:31\par
\par
String Trio #2  \ldblquote Fathers\rquote  Day Suite\rdblquote  five movements (2005)\par
\tab Neo-classical clarity, irony and wit.  Also available for 2 violins & cello.\par
\tab\tab I. -  Invention  2:57\par
\tab\tab II. - Sicilienne  3:52\par
\tab\tab III. - Variations on an Original Christmas Carol 2:37\par
\tab\tab IV. - Fugue Lento 3:00\par
\tab\tab V. - Vivo 3:38\par
\tab Duration:  16:00\par
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 String Trio #3:  \ldblquote The Hand of God\rdblquote    three movements  15:00    8-9/24\par
\tab Sacred music, written specifically for use in worship services.\par
\tab I. Prelude\par
\tab II.  Offertory\par
\tab III.  Postlude\par
\tab\tab Duration:  15:00\par
\par
String Trio #4:  \ldblquote What Saints & Poets Know\rdblquote   four mov\rquote ts  17:22   9/24\par
\tab In a neo-classical style, evoking late Beethoven.\par
\tab Duration:  17:22\par
\par
String Trio #5:  \ldblquote The Birth of Hope\rdblquote   two mov\rquote ts   11/24\par
\tab Neo-classical.  A Prelude-Scherzo followed by a movement depicting the rise from despair to hope to energy, ending in a fugue.\par
\tab Duration:  11:44\par }
\par
\par
{\f2\b FOR STRING QUARTET:\par }
\par
Fantasia on \lquote Shenandoah\rquote  (one movement) (1991)\par
\tab An extended development of our most beautiful American folksong.\par
\tab Duration:  13:03\par
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 Hopeful Green for string quartet.  Buoyant, optimistic, enthusiastic music.\par
\tab Duration:  4:14    5/24\par }
\par
\par
{\f2\b FOR MIXED ENSEMBLES THAT INCLUDE CELLO:\par }
\par
\ldblquote Three Piquant Pieces\rdblquote  for oboe, violin, viola and cello (1977.  rev. 2000-2001)\par
\tab A wistful waltz, an expression of religious feeling, a romp in an eastern-European style.\par
\tab Duration:  11:10\par
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ldblquote Checkerboard:  Johnny Bach\rquote s Cakewalk\rdblquote  for oboe, vln, vla and VC.  2023.\par }
\tab Baroque-style music and Ragtime, improbably combined for elicit chuckles of delight.  \par
\tab Duration:  4:30.\par
\par
Serenade for Mary: A Musical Get-well Card for flute, clarinet & string quartet; five mov'ts\u160 ?(1978)\u160 ? \par
\tab Light, lovely music.\u160 ?\u160 ?"Mary" is not the Virgin, but rather a woman the composer admires.\u160 ?\par
\tab I. Overture toward Mary, II. Lullabye for Mary, III. Scherzo on Mary, IV. Spiritus Maria  \tab\tab (invoking the other, better-known Mary), V. Theme and \lquote Mary-ations\rquote \par
\tab Duration:  21:05\par
\par
Pastorale for flute & string trio (1979)\par
\tab Lovely, bucolic and serene, reminiscent of English folksong based composers.\par
\tab Duration:  10:26\par
\par
Mt. Airy Suite for flute or oboe, or flute, violin & cello;  four movements (1993)\par
\tab Written for a friend\rquote s wedding, joyful, neo-Baroque sounding music.\par
\tab Duration:   13 min.\par
\par
Quintet for A clarinet & strings; four movements\u160 ?(1995)\u160 ? (also available for B flat clarinet) \par
\tab Written for the French clarinetist Lucien\u160 ?Aubert, who premiered it in Paris in June of 1996.\u160 ? \tab An American\rquote s response to the great\u160 ?architectural structures of European classical music. \par
\tab Duration:  24:51 min. \par
\par
Trio #1 \ldblquote con Brio\rdblquote  for violin, clarinet & cello; five movements (1999)\par
\tab Written to suit the musical tastes of a fiery, jolly, passionate Italian clarinetist friend.\u160 ? \par
\tab I. Intrada, II. Lincolnesque, III. Song of Samwise, IV. Lullabye, V. Finale\par
\tab Duration:  17:53\par
\par
Trio #2 \ldblquote The Journey Does Not End\rdblquote  for violin, clarinet in A & cello; one movement.  2023\par
\tab Three sections played without pause:  slow - fast - slow.  Moods are wistful, joyful, serene.\par
\tab Duration:  9:50\par
\par
Be of Good Cheer for B flat Clarinet, French horn and cello.  2023.\par
\tab Cheerful music with an emphasis on counterpoint as all three instruments are of equal importance.\par
\tab Duration:  4:45\par
{\nowidctlpar \par }
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 Exits & Entrances for clarinet, Fr. Horn, cello & piano.  2023\par
\tab Two movements:  I. Exit of the Introverts, II. Entrance of the Extroverts.\par
\tab Duration 7 min.\par
\par
Symphony for Seven Instruments for fl., ob., trp. vln., vla., VC & pno.  2023\par
\tab Four movements, each of which can be played as a \lquote stand-alone\rquote  piece.\par
\tab\tab I.  Imbued with the Truth  8:23\par
\tab\tab II.  Fugue of Gratitude  4:12\par
\tab\tab III.  Credo (This I Believe)  6:21\par
\tab\tab IV.  Fughetta  3:27\par
\tab\tab\tab Total duration:  21:22\par
\par
The Swashbuckler:  homage to Korngold for fl., ob. trp. pno. vln, vla, VC  5:00   4/24\par
\par
Concerto Foresta  for fl., ob. trp. pno. vln, vla, VC  18:30   4/24\par
\tab 1.  5:48\par
\tab 2.  5:40\par
\tab 3. 7:05\par
\par
\par
\par
{\f2\b FOR FLUTE, OBOE, VIOLA & CELLO}\par
\par
\ldblquote Reconciliations\rdblquote   for flute, oboe, viola & cello\par
\tab 1.  Checkerboard: Bach and Joplin Attuned    4:53   5/24\par
\tab 2.   Sorrow and Joy Attuned  7:00   5/24\par
\tab 3.   Winds and Strings Attuned  4:54  2023.\par
\tab\tab Duration:  17:00\par
\tab \par }}}
{\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\nowidctlpar {\f3\fs26\ldblquote\u84 T\u104 h\u101 e\u32  \u70 F\u111 o\u108 l\u107 k\u32  \u111 o\u102 f\u32  \u70 F\u105 i\u101 e\u108 l\u100 d\u32  \u38 &\u32  \u71 G\u108 l\u101 e\u110 n\rdblquote\u32  \u83 S\u117 u\u105 i\u116 t\u101 e\u32  \u102 f\u111 o\u114 r\u32  \u102 f\u108 l\u117 u\u116 t\u101 e\u44 ,\u32  \u111 o\u98 b\u111 o\u101 e\u44 ,\u32  \u118 v\u105 i\u111 o\u108 l\u97 a\u32  \u97 a\u110 n\u100 d\u32  \u99 c\u101 e\u108 l\u108 l\u111 o\par\u73 I\u46 .\u32  \u32  \u32  \u71 G\u108 l\u101 e\u101 e\u102 f\u117 u\u108 l\u32  \u87 W\u111 o\u111 o\u100 d\u32  \u84 T\u104 h\u114 r\u117 u\u115 s\u104 h\u32  \u45 -\u32  \u105 i\u110 n\u32  \u68 D\u32  \u109 m\u97 a\u106 j\u111 o\u114 r\u32  \u32  \u32  \u52 4:\u51 3\u55 7\par\u73 I\u73 I\u46 .\u32  \u32  \u32  \u84 T\u104 h\u111 o\u117 u\u103 g\u104 h\u116 t\u102 f\u117 u\u108 l\u32  \u79 O\u119 w\u108 l\u32  \u45 -\u32  \u105 i\u110 n\u32  \u68 D\u32  \u109 m\u105 i\u110 n\u111 o\u114 r\u32  \u32  \u45 -\u32  \u115 s\u108 l\u111 o\u119 w\u44 ,\u32  \u115 s\u97 a\u100 d\u32  \u32  \u53 5:\u50 2\u54 6\par\u73 I\u73 I\u73 I\u46 .\u32  \u32  \u32  \u90 Z\u97 a\u110 n\u121 y\u32  \u77 M\u111 o\u99 c\u107 k\u105 i\u110 n\u103 g\u98 b\u105 i\u114 r\u100 d\u32  \u45 -\u32  \u68 D\u32  \u109 m\u97 a\u106 j\u111 o\u114 r\u32  \u45 -\u32  \u115 s\u99 c\u104 h\u101 e\u114 r\u122 z\u111 o\u32  \u32  \u32  \u50 2:\u49 1\u48 0\par\u73 I\u86 V\u46 .\u32  \u32  \u77 M\u101 e\u97 a\u100 d\u111 o\u119 w\u32  \u76 L\u97 a\u114 r\u107 k\u32  \u45 -\u32  \u115 s\u108 l\u111 o\u119 w\u32  \u102 f\u117 u\u103 g\u117 u\u101 e\u32  \u105 i\u110 n\u32  \u67 C\u32  \u109 m\u97 a\u106 j\u111 o\u114 r\u32  \u32  \u32  \u52 4:\u52 4\u56 8\par\u86 V\u46 .\u32  \u32  \u32  \u69 E\u120 x\u117 u\u98 b\u101 e\u114 r\u97 a\u110 n\u116 t\u32  \u67 C\u97 a\u114 r\u100 d\u105 i\u110 n\u97 a\u108 l\u32  \u45 -\u32  \u102 f\u105 i\u110 n\u97 a\u108 l\u101 e\u32  \u105 i\u110 n\u32  \u68 D\u32  \u109 m\u97 a\u106 j\u111 o\u114 r\u32  \u32  \u32  \u52 4:\u50 2\u54 6\par
\tab\u84 T\u111 o\u116 t\u97 a\u108 l\u32  \u100 d\u117 u\u114 r\u97 a\u116 t\u105 i\u111 o\u110 n:\u32  \u32  \u50 2\u49 1:\u50 2\u55 7\f1\fs24 \par }}
{\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 {\f1 \par }}
{\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f1 \par
\par
{\f2\b FOR FOUR CELLOS:\par }
The Cliffs Above the Clear Fork (1980) (a transcription of the same piece for cello & piano)\par
\tab Mysterious, beautiful, evoking a pioneer cemetery overlooking Ohio\rquote s Clear Fork River.\par
\tab Duration:  6:38\par
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 The Heart Has its Reasons for 4-part cello choir.  2023.\par }
\tab\ldblquote The heart has its reasons which reason knows nothing of.\rdblquote   \par }}
{\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\nowidctlpar {\f1\tab\tab\emdash  Blaise Pascal\par
\tab The piece presents a sentimental music in F major and a rigorously intellectual, contrapuntal music in A minor / D minor, representing the heart and the intellect, respectively.  Both are given their due in the course of the piece.  Sentiment \lquote wins out\rquote  in the end.\par
\tab Duration:  5:55\par }}
{\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f1 \par
\par
{\f2\b FOR CELLO & ORCHESTRA:\par
\par }
World Enough & Time, a rhapsody for cello & orchestra (1990)\par
\tab A soberly joyful meditation on the end of the Cold War.\par
\tab Duration:  15:05\par
\par
Concerto for cello & strings with A clarinet; \u160 ?four movements (2006)\par
\tab Written for Bulgarian cellist Kalin Ivanov who premiered it in Carnegie Hall.\par
\tab I. Hymns & Fugues, II. Bulgarian Blues, III. Sorbet, IV. Finale.\u160 ?\par
\tab Duration:  22:40\par
\par
\par
Here is an article about my clarinet-cello-piano trios.\par
\par
{\f2\b A Clarinetist\rquote s Journey of the Spirit \u160 ? by Joe Rosen\par }
\par
(printed in The Clarinet magazine, September 2007)\par
\par
\tab\ldblquote What music is this?\u160 ? Chamber music with clarinet, sure, but by whom?\rdblquote\u160 ?\par
\par
\tab Radio reception in the Pennsylvania mountains fades, recovers, then fades again, exasperating drivers.\u160 ? Fear of missing the announcer\rquote s tag forced me to pull over and wait for the coda.\u160 ? Finally came the revelation:\u160 ? Rick Sowash.\u160 ? New to me.\u160 ? I made note and hightailed it home to New York City.\par
\par
\tab A Google later I learned that I had heard one of no less than fifteen trios for clarinet, cello and piano by this 57-year old Cincinnati composer. \u160 ? Among my best friends are a cellist and pianist.\u160 ? I thought, why not? and ordered the sheet music directly from the composer at his website.\par
\par
\tab My cellist and pianist friends joined me twice a week, for seven weeks and played through all the trios in the order in which they were written, an extraordinary journey.\u160 ? Then we played them through all over again, thrilled to find memorable tunes, rich tonal harmonies, intricate counterpoint and an astonishing variety of moods, ranging from humor to tragedy.\par
\tab \par
\tab These trios were written during the past eight years for the composer\rquote s French friends, \ldblquote les Gavottes,\rdblquote  a Riviera-based professional trio.\u160 ? They recorded the first three on their CD \ldblquote Enchantement d\rquote avril\rdblquote  and have performed a half dozen of the trios, most notably at the Cannes Film Festival.\u160 ? Les Gavottes have not found time to perform or even read all the music Sowash has written for them; my friends and I are the first musicians to play through all of Sowash\rquote s trios.\par
\par
\tab The first trio is entitled \ldblquote Journey of the Spirit,\rdblquote  a title which might apply collectively to\u160 ? these fifteen works.\u160 ? Its four movements proceed from a darkly mysterious opening in A minor, through a Romantic interlude in G major, to a probing plainchant in E major, to a Hallelujah-like finale in Eb major.\u160 ? It\rquote s a journey from doubt to faith.\par
\par
\tab Trio #2, Enchantment of April, gives a nod to the life-affirming Miramax film of a few years back entitled \ldblquote Enchanted April.\rdblquote\u160 ? We\rquote re in Bb and Eb major and it\rquote s all sweetness and light.\par
\par
\tab The zig-zag pattern of these trios is apparent in the contrasting Trio #3, Shadows of November in A minor.\u160 ? The outer movements invite rough, energetic playing while the middle movement, a farewell to Autumn, is some of the saddest music we\rquote ve ever played.\par
\par
\tab There are some challenging licks in these trios, but virtuoso display is not what this music is about.\u160 ? Solid intermediate players can easily handle most of the trios.\u160 ? Expressivity is what\rquote s required.\par
\par
\tab Conversation of the Trees is the subtitle for #4, in D minor, offering five movements of lively \lquote chatter\rquote  between the three instruments, which are made of wood, after all, and wood comes from trees, right?\u160 ? Here the trees \ldblquote speak.\rdblquote \par
\par
\tab Trio #5, \ldblquote in classical style,\rdblquote  takes up the vocabulary of Haydn-through-Schubert, but with an American twist.\u160 ? The key is G minor, the minuet is tongue-in-cheek, the variations on an original American-sounding hymn-tune are colorful and funny and touching.\u160 ? All of the major themes of the first three movements recur in the rollicking Finale.\par
\par
\tab Again by sharp contrast comes the lengthy Trio #6, Goddess of the Moon, with a Debussy-like atmosphere, impressionistic and ambiguous, and cast in the gorgeous key of Db major.\u160 ? The movements are entitled:\u160 ? Prologue, Nocturne, Interlude, Scherzo and Epilogue.\u160 ? We performed this trio in concert and found that audiences want to applaud after the rousing Scherzo, thinking the piece has ended.\par
\par
\tab It\rquote s a zig-zag again from lush, long #6 to short, snappy, funny #7 \ldblquote The Philosopher Visits a Country Fair\rdblquote  in one movement.\u160 ? In A major, this one reminded us of Bernstein\rquote s Candide Overture.\u160 ? The country fair bubbles along in changing meters while the grumpy philosopher is depicted by a noble, pompous hymn-tune in 3/4.\u160 ? The two musics are then combined and get along beautifully.\par
\par
\tab Self-portraits are usual for painters, rare among composers.\u160 ? Trio #8 offer Two Self-portraits, both in Eb minor.\u160 ? First \ldblquote as a fool,\rdblquote  a clunky, hilarious four-part round with a\u160 ? contrasting pastoral section in C major.\u160 ? Then the deeply felt, \ldblquote as a sage\rdblquote  with a C major middle section once again, this time with a starry-night feel.\par
\par
\tab From self-portrayal, the composer moved to portraying \ldblquote Five Women\rdblquote  in Trio #9 in F major.\u160 ? They are the women in the composer\rquote s life and his movement titles describe the ladies thus:\u160 ? Merry & Mystical, In the Process of Becoming, Mother of My Children, Beautiful & Sad, and The Vitality of Emilie.\u160 ? This is the trio with the greatest variety of styles.\par
\par
\tab The next two trios are lighter and easier.\u160 ? \ldblquote Winds of May\rdblquote  is #10 in Bb major, with movements entitled Morning, Deep Forest, Wildflowers and Sunset.\u160 ? #11 in G major is a nostalgic remembrance of good times, entitled \ldblquote We Sang, We Danced.\rdblquote  \u160 ? The last movement is a very funny Tango, the only one in all the trios.\par
\par
\tab The longest and most challenging trio is #12 in Eb major, \ldblquote Voyageurs,\rdblquote  an epic homage to Canada.\u160 ? The first movement, \ldblquote Geese in Flight,\rdblquote  captures the V-formation flight pattern of Canada geese with a figure that rises in the clarinet while falling simultaneously in the cello.\u160 ? \ldblquote Song of the Voyageurs\rdblquote  evokes the hardiness of the French trappers with what sounds like a Breton folksong.\u160 ? Canada\rquote s natural wonders are depicted in the last two movements:\u160 ? \ldblquote Starshadows on Snow\rdblquote  and \ldblquote A Majestic Land.\rdblquote\u160 ? This music has a Sibelius-like orchestral breadth and ambition.\par
\par
\tab Thirteen is famously the unlucky number.\u160 ? Trio #13 in Eb minor, though a joy to play, is alternately sad and furious.\u160 ? The two movements, Passacaglia and Fugue, are played with hardly a pause between them, since the fugue subject grows right out of the Passacaglia tune.\u160 ? Indeed, at the height of the fugue, the Passacaglia tune recurs in the bass while the couterpoint rages overhead.\u160 ? This trio is boldly \lquote dedicated to the victims of Bush and Bin Laden,\rquote  a mournful, angry response to current events.\par
\par
\tab There are two un-numbered trios, both chamber transcriptions of orchestral works.\u160 ? \ldblquote The View from Carew,\rdblquote  originally a rhapsody in Eb major for clarinet and orchestra, evokes the sublime view of the Ohio Valley that is to be seen atop Carew Tower, the tallest building in Cincinnati. \u160 ?\par
\par
\tab The other and most recent trio is a transcription of the composer\rquote s new Concerto for Cello and Strings with Clarinet, written in the Fall of \lquote 06.\u160 ? It\rquote s a cello concerto alright, but the clarinet seems unwilling to accept this and constantly tries to upstage the soloist.\u160 ? As in trio #7, the key is A major and the score calls for the A clarinet.\u160 ? After the dark anger of #13 and the deep sighs of \ldblquote Carew\rdblquote  the mood finally turns joyful again in this final trio.\u160 ? The four movements are:\u160 ? Hymns & Fugues, Bulgarian Blues, Sorbet (a 28-second bagatelle) and the improbable Finale, written in the Reggae/Dixieland style known as \lquote Ska.\rquote \par
\par
\tab I\rquote ll admit to being a little obsessed with this composer but the rewards of playing his music are very great.\u160 ? Part of the fun, for me, was that, when I started playing his music, almost no one seemed to have heard of him.\u160 ? That\rquote s changing.\u160 ? Kalin Ivanov premiered his cello concerto in Carnegie Hall in April, \lquote 07.\u160 ? Rick met Kalin in my apartment while attending a home concert of his music which I had organized.\par
\par
\tab In discovering these trios and the many other Sowash clarinet works (36 in all) we\rquote ve also made a friend.\u160 ? Rick has attended and emceed performances we\rquote ve done in Manhattan, Long Island, Cleveland, Cincinnati and Waterloo, Ontario.\u160 ? He\rquote s even written two works specifically for me:\u160 ? Three Bagatelles for Clarinet & Bassoon and \ldblquote Audubon,\rdblquote  his only wind octet.\par
\par
\tab It\rquote s been a Journey of the Spirit.\u160 ? And it all started with a half-heard broadcast in the mountains of Pennsylvania.\par
\par
\par
\tab -- Joe Rosen is a passionate and very active amateur clarinetist based in New York City. \u160 ?\par
\tab -- For information about Rick Sowash\rquote s CDs and sheet music, go to:\u160 ? www.sowash.com.\par }}}