{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf\nisusversion50401 {\*\nisusorigapp Nisus}{\*\nisusorigdate\yr2022\mo2\dy4\hr20\min11 }{\*\nisussysvers 15.2.0}\deff0
{\*\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\f1\froman\fcharset77 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f2\froman\fcharset77 TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f3\froman\fcharset77 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}
{\colortbl ;\red56\green110\blue255 ;\red0\green0\blue255 ;}\nisusrevtypes0\donotshowinsdel1
{\*\nisustoctable
{\nisustoc\tcf68 {\nisustocname Default TOC}{\*\nisustoctabrep  }{\*\nisustocretrep  }{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 1}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 2}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 3}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 4}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 5}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 6}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 7}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 8}{\nisustoclevelstyle TOC 9}}\nisusactivetoc68 }
{\*\nisusxetable
{\nisusxe\xef68 {\nisusxename Default Index}{\nisusxeheaderstyle Index Heading}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 1}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 2}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 3}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 4}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 5}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 6}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 7}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 8}{\nisusxelevelstyle Index 9}{\*\fldinst INDEX \\k ". " \\g \endash  \\e "\tab " \\l ", " \\f D}}\nisusactivexe68 }
{\stylesheet
{\s104\snext104\f0 \ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\hyphpar1\li0\lin0\fi0\ri0\rin0 Normal;}
{\s105\snext105\sbasedon104\f0\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\hyphpar1\li0\lin0\fi0\ri0\rin0 Header;}
{\s106\snext106\sbasedon104\f0\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa0\sl240\slmult1\hyphpar1\li0\lin0\fi0\ri0\rin0 Footer;}
{\*\cs107\ul\cf2 Hyperlink;}}
\defformat {\*\generator Nisus Writer Pro 3.4.1 [0504.0104.01]}{\info {\*\nisusgmtoffset -5:00}{\author Rick}{\creatim\yr2013\mo12\dy20\hr6\min47 }{\revtim\yr2025\mo1\dy2\hr16\min48 }
\nofpages15 }{\*\userprops }\nisusrulerunits0\nisusstatusbar1\nisusareaid1\viewkind1\viewscale112\nisusviewruler1\nisusviewrulerh1\nisusviewrulerv0\nisusviewtoolbar1\nisusviewtooldrawer1\nisusviewtoolswidth200\nisusviewpagenumtype1\nisusviewrulericons0\donotshowcomments1
{\*\nisusviewsettings\viewkind4\viewscale125 {\nisusnavsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\width 160}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\mode toc}{\*\sort location}}{\nisuscommentsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 2}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}{\nisusrevisionsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 1}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 4}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}}
{\*\nisusviewsettings\viewkind1\viewscale112 {\nisusnavsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\width 160}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\mode toc}{\*\sort location}{\*\closedtochandles }}{\nisuscommentsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 2}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}{\nisusrevisionsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 1}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 4}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}}
{\*\nisusviewsettings\nisusviewknew102\viewscale100 {\nisusnavsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\width 160}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\mode toc}{\*\sort location}}{\nisuscommentsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 2}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}{\nisusrevisionsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 1}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 4}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}}
{\*\nisusviewsettings\nisusviewknew103\viewscale100 {\nisusnavsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\width 160}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\mode toc}{\*\sort location}}{\nisuscommentsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 2}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}{\nisusrevisionsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 1}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 4}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}}
{\*\nisusviewsettings\nisusviewknew104\viewscale100 {\nisusnavsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\width 160}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\mode toc}{\*\sort location}}{\nisuscommentsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 0}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 2}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}{\nisusrevisionsettings {\*\visible 0}{\*\showPane 1}{\*\isOnRightSide 1}{\*\width 180}{\*\titlebarInfo 4}{\*\showTextHighlighting 1}{\*\showGutterIcons 1}}}
\nisusareasplitv0
{\*\nisuswindow\x323\y155\w840\actualw1040\h720 }
\nshwinv0\nshwpg1\nisusinlinespell1\nisushyphnone\spltpgpar\nisusselectstart5286\nisusselectlength0\fet2\ftnbj\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1224\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\pgnstart1\nocolbal\widowctrl \f0
\sectd\endnhere\cols1\ltrsect\colbalsxn0\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1224\margrsxn1440\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\guttersxn0\headery720\footery180\pgncont\pgndec\sxnstarts1\sxnrestart\sxndec
{\header\plain\pard\s105\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\f0\fs24 }
{\footer\plain\pard\s106\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\f0\fs24 }
\deftab720 {\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f1\b Rick Sowash\rquote s compositions for clarinet\par }
{\f2 \par }}
{\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\nowidctlpar {\f2 Simply by asking, any clarinetist can receive free PDFs of the full score-and-parts for any or all of\u160 ?my clarinet works as well as mp3 recordings.\u160 ? \u160 ?\par
\par
Please email me at: \u160 ?}}{\field {\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "mailto:rick@sowash.com"}{\fldrslt {\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\nowidctlpar {\cs107\f2\ul\ulc1\cf1 rick@sowash.com}}}}
{\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\nowidctlpar {\f2 .\par
\par
It\rquote s my policy to give away my music to anyone who is interested in discovering it. \u160 ?Also, no permission is required to print the PDFs or perform\u160 ?the music.\u160 ?\u160 ?\par
\par
Nothing on this list of works is for sale. \u160 ?My music is my gift to musicians and their audiences. \u160 ? The ideas came to me for\u160 ?free; I am very happy to pass along my music for free.\par
\par
Ask for a bunch of pieces! \u160 ?You\rquote re not being greedy. \u160 ?You\rquote re being curious! \u160 ?That\rquote s a {\f3\i good} thing!\par
\par
My scores and parts are professional in appearance, carefully rendered in the computer\u160 ?notation program Finale. \u160 ?Page-turns are calculated for ease and convenience.\u160 ?\u160 ?\par
\par }}
{\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\nowidctlpar {\f2 All scores are for B flat Clarinet unless otherwise indicated.\par }}
{\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\nowidctlpar {\f2 \par
Thank you in advance for allowing me to share my work with you.\par }}
{\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f2 \par
\par
{\f1\b FOR SOLO CLARINET:\par }
\par
Six Lovely Little Variations on \ldblquote Love is Little\rdblquote (2008)\par
\tab Easy piece in C major, for good beginners.  \ldblquote Love is Little\rdblquote  is a Shaker hymn. \par
\tab Duration:  4:08\par
\par
Variations on a theme by Grandma Moses (2012)\par
\tab Easy piece in C major, for good beginners. The theme is mine, not really by G\rquote ma Moses.\par
\tab Duration:  5:06\par
\par
College Town Diary:\u160 ? Twelve Months in Gambier;\u160 ? twelve movements (1993) \u160 ? \tab \par
\tab Each movement depicts a month in a year in an Ohio college town.\u160 ? Miniatures, very short, alternately sarcastic and tender, sassy and poignant.\u160 ? Fun for college students.\par
\tab Duration:  22:13\par
\par
Variations Plain & Simple for solo B flat clarinet (2020)\par
\tab Easy piece in C major, for good beginners. The theme is original, tender, very American-sounding, like a folk hymn or a love theme from a Western.\par
\tab Duration:  5:50\par
\par
Prelude (2021)\par
\tab Very short, easy, in C major.  A miniature.\par
\tab Duration: 2:00\par
\par
\par
{\f1\b FOR CLARINET QUARTET:  }(three B flat clarinets + bass clarinet){\f1\b \par }
\par
Our Home for clarinet quartet (three B flat clarinets + bass clarinet) seven mov'ts (1978, rev. 2012)\par
\tab Light and whimsical, musical descriptions of seven rooms in the composer\rquote s home.  Easy.\par
\tab Duration:  12:30\par
\par
Chanty & Ragtime for clarinet quartet, two movements.  1976, arr. 2016.\par
\tab An original sea chanty and ragtime, originally written for woodwind quintet.\par
\tab Duration:  6:45\par
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 The Mingling of Yonder and Near for clarinet quartet.  \par
\tab The piece mingles the mysterious music of yonder with the familiar music of the nearby, i.e., two very different musics are presented at the beginning which are then juxtaposed throughout the piece.  The \ldblquote yonder\rdblquote  music is arpeggiated chords that are harmonically distant from one another while the \ldblquote near\rdblquote  music almost sounds familiar, like something from the score of a French film. \tab \par
\tab Duration:  5:38\par }
\par
\par
{\f1\b FOR CLARINET AND PIANO:\par }
\par
Suite from \ldblquote A College Town Diary\rdblquote  for clarinet & piano.  (2015, revised from earlier works.) \par
\tab Six short movements, alternately tender and comical.\par
\tab Duration:  13 minutes.\par
\par
Sanctuary at 3 AM for clarinet & piano\u160 ?(2000)\u160 ? Comforting, quiet, soothing\u160 ?music.\par
\tab Duration:  6:30\par
\par
Lullabye for Kara: for bass clarinet & piano\u160 ?(2002) \u160 ?\par
\tab Gentle, quiet, bluesy, sleepy, a little Gershwin-esque, evokes \ldblquote The Old South.\rdblquote\u160 ? \par
\tab Duration:  7:20\u160 ? \tab\tab \par
\par
Two Homages for clarinet & piano (2007)\par
\tab I. Gelato per Dio (Ice Cream for God) - Homage to Puccini\par
\tab II.  Curly Prays - Homage to Richard Rodgers\par
\tab Duration:  8 min.\par
\par
Concerto for Bb Clarinet & Orchestra  three movements (2007)\par
\tab Reduction for clarinet and piano.\par
\tab Duration:  30:17\par
\par
The View from Carew:\u160 ? Romance for clarinet & orchestra (2000) - reduction for clar. & piano\par
\tab This piece can stand alone but it is also the second movement of my clarinet concerto.\par
\tab Duration:  10:51\par
\par
A Hero\rquote s Prayer for bass clarinet and piano.  (2000).  Thoughtful, brooding, quietly heroic.\par
\tab Duration:  5:23\par
\par
Lincolnesque for Bb clarinet and piano.  (1999).  \par
\tab Evoking the man of the Prairie, the folksy, lanky,\u160 ?gentle lover of books and teller of stories. \u160 ?Quiet and a tad wistful. \u160 ?\par
\tab Duration:  2:22\par
\par
Foreground Background for clarinet and piano.  (2000).\par
\tab A folksy tune given an \lquote up close\rquote  treatment first and then transformed into something grand and distant.\par
\tab Duration:  4:38.  \par
{\*\nisusscroll\nisusarea1\xoffset0\yoffset0 }\par
Like a Twig Upon the Shoulders of a Mighty Stream:  Part One for clarinet & piano.  (2011, rev. 2022).\par
\tab Reduction of a portion of 3rd movement of \ldblquote North Country Suite\rdblquote  for orchestra, which is an homage to the Mississippi River.  The music sounds American, a little like a Hollywood western film score, with a touch of the Blues.\par
\tab Duration:  3:20.\par }}
{\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f2 \par
Like a Twig Upon the Shoulders of a Mighty Stream:  Part Two for clarinet & piano.  2011, rev. 2022.   arr. by Ona Pinsonneault.\par
\tab alternate title:  Beignets & Gelato.   Music in \ldblquote Dixieland\rdblquote  style.   Duration:  2:15.\par }}
{\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f2 \par }}
{\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f2 The Alphabet of Streams for clarinet & piano.  1995, transcribed 2022.  A hybrid of Bach-like gestures and a fragment of the Blue scale.  Duration:  2:15.\par
\par
Rondo Pastorale: Homage to Gerald Finzi for B flat clarinet & piano.  2022.   In a cheery, bucolic style.  The piano part is densely contrapuntal and reminiscent of Bach, whom Finzi greatly admired.  Yet the music still sounds American somehow.   Duration 6:33\par
\par }}
{\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f2 Footnote for B flat clarinet & piano. 2023.  A modest little piece, easy to play, but sweet.\par
\tab Duration:  2:15.\par }}
{\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f2\nisusselectcaret \par }
{\f2 Peace Descends like Snow for B flat clarinet & piano.  2023.  A quiet piece somewhat in the manner of Vaughan Williams but still American-sounding.  Both parts are fairly easy to play.\par
\tab Duration:  3:13.\par
\par }}
{\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 {\f2 Beyond the Reach of Words for Bb clarinet & piano.  2023.  A pensive piece.  Written for a friend to play in church as \ldblquote centering music.\rdblquote \par
\tab Duration:  4:18.\par
\par
Sonata for Clarinet & Piano.   2024.  Five movements.  Key of D minor.\par
\tab\tab I.  Wintry Dawn  6:44   serious, beautiful\par
\tab\tab II.  Scherzo  3:08    light-hearted\par
\tab\tab III.  Largo  2:46    gorgeous\par
\tab\tab IV.  Fugue  2:02\tab sprightly, very neo-classical\par
\tab\tab V.  Rondo Finale  4:22   rambunctious\par
\tab Duration:  19:00\par
\par }}
{\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 {\f2 Full Circle Suite, 2024  Eight movements.    Duration:  18:00\par }}
{\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 {\f2 1.  The Owl and the Pussycat   in F major  2:55\par
\tab 1971, rev. 2024\par
2.  Twilight Turns Darker Blue   in B flat major  2:22\par
\tab 1975, 2024\par
3.  The Passing of Buffalo Bill   in E flat major  1:27\par
\tab 1968, rev. 2024\par
4.  Waking at Night  in A flat major  1:26\par
\tab 1977, rev. 2024\par
5.  High-Bouncing Lover  in C major  :47\par
\tab 1971, rev. 2024\par
6.  The Fat Cat on the Mat  in C major  3:21\par
\tab 1969, rev. 2024\par }}
{\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f2 7.  Sleep, Child, Lie Quiet   in C minor  2:00\par
\tab 1974, rev. 2024\par
8.  Light is Her Step   in G major, then A flat major   3:08\par
\tab 1975, rev. 2024\par
\tab The title refers to the expression \ldblquote coming full circle.\rdblquote   These are eight pieces which were originally songs I wrote when I was in my twenties, now fifty years ago.  Revisiting, revising and rescoring these songs was like collaborating with my younger self. \par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 \par }
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 {\f1\b FOR CLARINET & CELLO}\par }
\par
Born of the Same Wild Mother: A Wintry Suite for clarinet & cello (1993, rev. 2001)\par
\tab Five movements.  The music is a little dark, chilly, bracing, but also sometimes tender.\par
\tab Duration:  12:11\par
\par
Three Bagatelles for clarinet & cello; three movements\u160 ? (also available for violin & cello) (2005)\u160 ? \par
\tab Short, humorous movements.\u160 ? A tribute to Laurel & Hardy.  Easy and fun to play.\u160 ?\par
\tab Duration:  4:30 \u160 ?\par
\par
Glory Hallelujah for clarinet & cello;  four movements (2013)\par
\tab Movements I, II and IV are a little jazzy; III is marked \ldblquote Religioso.\rdblquote   Last movement quotes \tab\ldblquote Glory, glory, halleujah\rdblquote  from \ldblquote The Battle Hymn of the Republic.\rdblquote   \par
\tab Duration:  11:20 \par
\par
Calloway Suite for clarinet and cello, revised from earlier works in 2014.\par
\tab A cycle of seven short, humorous pieces in tribute to Cab Calloway.\par
\tab Duration 16 minutes.\par
\par
A Christmas Ceremony for clarinet and cello; five movements.  2011.\par
\tab For use at weddings and worship services, but also suitable for recitals.  The piece can be played any time of year;  if not during the Holidays, just drop the word \ldblquote Christmas.\rdblquote \par
\tab I. Prelude, \par
\tab II. Processional \par
\tab III. The Ceremony \par
\tab IV. Recessional \par
\tab V. Postlude\par
\tab Duration:  13:27{\f1\b \par }
\par
Condolence for clarinet and cello; 2023.  Serious, yet sweetly sad, appropriate for a memorial service. \u160 ?\par
\tab Duration:  4:31\par
\par
\par
{\f1\b DUOS FOR CLARINET & BASSOON\par
\par }
Three Bagatelles for clarinet & bassoon; three movements\u160 ? (2005)\u160 ? \par
\tab Short, humorous movements.\u160 ? A tribute to Laurel & Hardy.  Easy and fun to play.\u160 ?\par
\tab Duration:  4:30 \u160 ?\par
\par }}
{\pard\nisusnos\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql\nowidctlpar {\f2\ldblquote Darkening November, Brightening April\rdblquote  for B flat clarinet & bassoon. (2023)\par
\tab Two movements evoking the borderlines between seasons.\par
\tab Tonal, lyrical, moderately demanding, requiring strong intermediate-level players.\par
\tab Duration:  12:00\par
\par }}
{\pard\s104\ltrpar\pardirnatural\ql {\f2 \par
{\f1\b TRIOS FOR VIOLIN, CLARINET AND PIANO:\par }
\par
Trio #1 for violin,  A clarinet & piano: \ldblquote Sunny Days\rdblquote ;\u160 ? four movements\u160 ?(1994)\u160 ? \par
\tab Blends Belo-Russia folk-songs with original tunes that have a distinctly American sound.\u160 ? \par
\tab Duration:  17:55\par
\par
Trio #2 for violin, A clarinet & piano:\u160 ? \ldblquote American Variations on a Belo-Russian Folktune\rdblquote ;\u160 ? \par
\tab One long, rich and varied movement (1994, rev. 1996, rev. 2005) \u160 ?\par
\tab A little Russian folktune gradually becomes more and more American-sounding.\u160 ? \par
\tab Duration:  15:19\par
\par
Trio #3 for violin, clarinet & piano: \ldblquote Memories of Corsica\rdblquote ; three movements (2007)\par
\tab I. Arid Heat, II. Aromatic Breezes and III. Ardent Souls.\u160 ?\par
\tab Duration:  15:20\par
\par
Trio #4 for violin, Bb clarinet & piano: \ldblquote Images of Mt. Emily\rdblquote ; five movements (2011)\par
\tab Images of a mountain in eastern Oregon.  \par
\tab I. Good Morning, Miss Emily,  II. Reflections,  III. Here Comes Spring,  \par
\tab IV. Silent Sentinel,  V. Harvest Time: Prayer & Hymn\par
\tab Duration:   22 min. \par
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 Breezes at Mazatl\u225 ?n for violin, clarinet in B flat & piano.  2023.\par
\tab I.  Morning Breeze at Mazatlan.   Duration:  1:35.\par
\tab II.  Evening Breeze at Mazatlan.    Duration:  1:36.\par
 Very short, lyrical pieces written to be a brief offertory in a church service in Mazatlan, Mexico.\par
\tab \par }
Fugue in F Danke Herr Bach for violin, clarinet in B flat & piano.  2023.\par
\tab Very Bach-ish fugue written to be a brief offertory.\par
\tab Duration:  1:40\par
\par
{\f1\b TRIOS FOR CLARINET, CELLO AND PIANO:\par }
\par
Trio #1 for clarinet, cello & piano:\u160 ?\ldblquote Voyage of the Spirit\rdblquote ; four movements (1998)\par
\tab Moves from mysterious through romantic to exuberant.\u160 ? \par
\tab Duration:  17:44\par
\par
Trio #2 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote Enchantment of April\rdblquote ; three movements\u160 ?(2002)\par
\tab Lush, romantic, springtime music.  Slow movement is the most beautiful I\rquote ve written.\par
\tab Duration:  20:09\par
\par
Trio #3 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote Shadows of November\rdblquote ; three movements\u160 ?(2002)\u160 ?\par
\tab Outer movements are darkly energetic, middle movement is tender and sad.\u160 ? \par
\tab Duration:  15:24\par
\par
Trio #4 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote Conversation of the Trees\rdblquote ; five movements\u160 ?(2002)\par
\tab All three instruments are made from wood, after all.  Here, their respective trees converse.\par
\tab Duration:  26:18\tab \par
\par
Trio #5 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote in classical style\rdblquote ; four movements\u160 ?(2002)\par
\tab A tongue-in-cheek homage to the great classical composers, especially Beethoven and \tab\tab Schubert.  I. Sonata-allegro form, II. Theme & variations, III. Minuet, IV. Rondo finale\par
\tab Duration:  26:30\par
\par
Trio #6 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote Goddess of the Moon\rdblquote ; five movements\u160 ?(2002)\par
\tab A night-time piece, ambiguous, impressionistic, nocturnal, very beautiful\u160 ?but a little strange.\par
\tab I. Prologue, II. Nocturne, III. Interlude, IV. Scherzo, V. Epilogue\par
\tab Duration:  27:12\par
Note:  This music is gorgeous, but the whole piece is a little long for practical use in concerts.  An alternative is to perform only movements I, III and V with the title \ldblquote Three Nocturnes for clarinet, cello and piano.\rdblquote   Another alternative is to perform only movements II and IV with the title \ldblquote Nocturne and Scherzo for clarinet, cello and piano.  Both alternatives have worked very well.\par
\par
Trio #7 for A clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote The Philosopher visits a Country Fair\rdblquote (2003)\par
\tab Snappy, short, funny, a little like Bernstein\rquote s Candide Overture. \par
\tab Duration:  5:25\par
\par
Trio #8 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote Two Self-Portraits\rdblquote ; two movements\u160 ?(2003)\par
\tab I. Self-Portrait as a fool, II. Self-Portrait as a sage.\rdblquote  \par
\tab Duration:  12:56  \par
\par
Trio #9 for clarinet, cello & piano:\u160 ? \ldblquote Five Women\rdblquote ; five movements\u160 ?(2003)\par
\tab Portraits of five women I love.  Niece, aunt, friends and wife.\par
\tab Duration:  18:09\par
\par
Trio #10 for clarinet, cello & piano: \ldblquote Winds of May\rdblquote ;\u160 ? four movements\u160 ?(2003)\par
\tab Windy, fresh, intimate music.  The easiest of my clarinet/cello/piano trios.\par
\tab I.  Morning, II. Deep Forest, III. Wildflowers, IV. Sunset \par
\tab Duration:  12:25\par
 \par
Trio #11 for clarinet, cello & piano:\u160 ?\ldblquote We Sang, We Danced\rdblquote ;\u160 ? four movements\u160 ?(2003)\par
\tab Good times remembered nostalgically.  Fairly easy and fun.  The last movement is a tango.\par
\tab Duration:  16:23\par
\par
Trio #12 for clarinet, cello & piano:\u160 ?\ldblquote Voyageurs\rdblquote ;\u160 ? four movements\u160 ?(2003)\par
\tab Powerful and compelling, an epic homage to and evocation of Canada.\par
\tab I. Geese in Flight, II. Song of the Voyageurs, III. Starshadows on Snow, \par
\tab IV. A Majestic Land\par
\tab Duration:  28 min.\par
\par
Trio #13 for clarinet, cello & piano:\u160 ? \ldblquote Passacaglia & Fugue\rdblquote ;\u160 ? two movements\u160 ?(2004)\par
\tab An anti-war piece, sad and furious, dedicated \ldblquote To the victims of George W. Bush and \tab\tab Osama bin Ladin.\rdblquote   My opinion: this is one of my best, strongest, most deeply felt pieces.\par
\tab Duration:  16:40\par
\par
The View from Carew:\u160 ? Romance for clarinet, cello & piano\u160 ?(2000)\par
\tab Neo-romantic, sad and beautiful.  Also available for clarinet & piano.\u160 ?\par
\tab Also available for clarinet and orchestra.  See below.\u160 ?\par
\tab Duration:  10 min.\par
\par
Reduction for clarinet, cello & piano of my Concerto for cello & strings with A clarinet.\u160 ? \par
\tab four movements\u160 ?(2006)\par
\tab I. Hymns & Fugues, II. Bulgarian Blues, III. Sorbet, IV. Finale.\u160 ?\par
\tab Duration:  22:40\par
\par
{\f1\b FOR VIOLIN, CLARINET, CELLO AND PIANO:\par }
\par
Daweswood for violin, clarinet, cello & piano;\u160 ? three movements\u160 ?(1980)\u160 ? \par
\tab I. The Bud, II. The Blossom, III. The Berry.\par
\tab Cheerful, serene meditations on the lifecycle of plants.\u160 ?\par
\tab Duration:  15:38\par
\par
Anecdotes and Reflections: A Portrait of America for violin, Bb clarinet, cello & piano;\u160 ? \par
\tab six movements (1989)\par
\tab A long, eclectic work, attempting to express the staggering diversity of American culture.  Movements I and II, III and IV, V and VI can be played as separate, stand-alone, two-movement works.  In other words, all six movements don\rquote t have to be played in the same concert.\par
\tab Duration:  38:39\par
\par
Icons:  Gershwin & Sousa for violin, Bb clarinet, cello & piano;  two movements. (1989)\par
\tab Homages, first tender, then zesty, to two great American composers, these are movements II and VI from Anecdotes and Reflections, often performed together.\par
\tab Duration:  12:40\par
\par
A Perfect Day for Sailing for violin, Bb clarinet, cello & piano (1989)\par
\tab Exciting, breezy, outdoors-y music, like sailing.  This is movement III from Anecdotes and \tab\tab Reflections\par
\tab Duration:  5:33\par
\par
Three Pieces for violin, Bb clarinet, cello & piano (1989)\par
\tab I. Immigrants, II. Portrait of a River, III. Opposites Reconciled\par
  \tab These are movements I, IV and V from Anecdotes and Reflections.\par
\tab Duration:  22:30\par
\par
{\f1\b FOR REED TRIO (OBOE, B flat CLARINET AND BASSOON):\par }
\par
Impressionist Suite #1 for oboe, B flat clarinet and bassoon; three movements (2000)\par
\tab Canonic homages to Renoir, Monet and Manet.\par
\tab Duration:  12:13\par
\par
Impressionist Suite #2 for oboe, B flat clarinet and bassoon; three movements (2000)\par
\tab Canonic homages to Caillebotte, Cassat, Sisley and Bazille.\par
\tab Duration:  13 min.\par
\par
{\f1\b FOR CLARINET TRIO (TWO B flat CLARINETS + BASS CLARINET):\par }
\par
Impressionist Suite #1; three movements (2000)\par
\tab Canonic homages to Renoir, Monet and Manet.\par
\tab Duration:  12:13\par
\par
{\f1\b FOR NON-STANDARD ENSEMBLES:\par }
\par
Trio #1 \ldblquote con Brio\rdblquote  for violin, clarinet & cello; five movements (1999)\par
\tab Written to suit the musical tastes of a fiery Italian clarinetist friend.\par
\tab Duration:  17:53\par
\par
Trio #2 for violin, clarinet in A & cello \ldblquote The Journey Does Not End\rdblquote ; one movement.  2023\par
\tab Three sections played without pause:  slow - fast - slow.  Moods are wistful, joyful, serene.\par
\tab Duration:  9:50\par
\par
Serenade for Mary: A Musical Get-well Card for flute, clarinet & string quartet; five mov'ts\u160 ?(1978)\u160 ? \par
\tab Light, lovely music.\u160 ?\u160 ?"Mary" is not the Virgin, but rather a woman the composer admires.\u160 ?\par
\tab I. Overture toward Mary, II. Lullabye for Mary, III. Scherzo on Mary, IV. Spiritus Maria  \tab\tab (invoking the other, better-known Mary), V. Theme and \lquote Mary-ations\rquote \par
\tab Duration:  21:05\par
 \par
A Little Breakfast Music for two violins, oboe and clarinet;\u160 ? five movements\u160 ?(1976)\u160 ? \par
\tab Serious but also humorous, like Haydn\rquote s music often is.\u160 ? \par
\tab I. Orange Juice, II. French Toast, III. Bacon & Eggs, \par
\tab IV. Honey on English Muffins, V. A Variety of Herb Teas.\u160 ? \par
\tab Duration:  26:14\par
\par
Our Home for Woodwind Quartet: flute, oboe, clarinet and bassoon\u160 ? seven movements\u160 ?(1978) \par
 \tab Light and whimsical, musical descriptions of seven rooms in the composer\rquote s home.\tab  Easy.\par
\tab Duration:  12:30\par
\par
Lagoons of San Diego County for flute, alto flute, Bb clarinet & piano; three movements.  2014. \par
\tab 1. Rising Tide, 2. Nocturne, 3. Breeding Frenzy\par
\tab Duration: 15 min.\par
\par
Be of Good Cheer for Bflat Clarinet, French horn and cello.  2023.\par
\tab Cheerful music with an emphasis on counterpoint as all three instruments are of equal importance.\par
\tab Duration:  4:45\par
\par
{\nowidctlpar Escapades for Clarinet, French horn & piano.  2023.\par
\tab Exuberant \lquote adventure music.\rquote   \par
\tab Duration:  9:40.\par
\par }
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 Exits & Entrances for clarinet, Fr. Horn, cello & piano.  2023\par
\tab Two movements:  I. Exit of the Introverts, II. Entrance of the Extroverts.\par
\tab Duration 7 min.\par
\par
Symphony for Seven Instruments for fl., ob., trp. vln., vla., VC & pno.  2023\par
\tab Four movements, each of which can be played as a \lquote stand-alone\rquote  piece.\par
\tab\tab I.  Imbued with the Truth  8:23\par
\tab\tab II.  Fugue of Gratitude  4:12\par
\tab\tab III.  Credo (This I Believe)  6:21\par
\tab\tab IV.  Fughetta  3:27\par
\tab\tab\tab Total duration:  21:22\par }
\par
\par
{\f1\b FOR CLARINET AND VOICE}\par
\par
Along the River for mezzo soprano, clarinet & piano;  texts by James Joyce.  1998, rev. 2006.\par
\tab Wistful, passionate, the cycle tells a love story; a personal favorite of mine.\par
\tab Duration:  21 min.\par
\par
Along the River for mezzo soprano, {\f3\i flute}, clarinet & piano;  texts by James Joyce.  1998, rev. 2007.\par
 \tab Revised to include {\f3\i flute}.  Wistful, passionate, the cycle tells a love story; this piece is a \tab\tab personal favorite of mine.\par
\tab Duration:  21 min.\par
\par
Three Musical Myths for coloratura soprano, A clarinet and piano.   1995.\par
\tab Powerful settings of well-known, ancient Greek mythic tales about the power of music.\u160 ? \par\u160 ?\tab I. Pan, II. Music of the Spheres, III. Orpheus. \u160 ? \par
\tab Duration:  8:10\par
\par
{\nowidctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720 Song of the Marsh for mezzo, flute, clarinet, violin, cello & pno.; text by Odell Shepard.  2010.\par }
\tab A beautiful but desolate marsh finds its voice and sings a stern warning to humans.\par
\tab Duration:  7:24\par
\par
Three Whitman Songs for mezzo soprano & clarinet;\u160 ? texts by Walt Whitman\u160 ? (1998) \par
\tab (Also available in a version for {\f3\i baritone} and clarinet.)\tab \par
\tab I. The First Dandelion \u160 ? II. A Noiseless Patient Spider \u160 ? III. A Farm Picture\par
\tab Duration:  6:12\par
\par
\par
{\f1\b CLARINET QUINTET:\par }
\par
Quintet for A clarinet & strings; four movements\u160 ?(1995)\u160 ? (also available for B flat clarinet) \par
\tab Written for the French clarinetist Lucien\u160 ?Aubert, who premiered it in Paris in June of 1996.\u160 ? \tab An American\rquote s response to the great\u160 ?architectural structures of European classical music.\par
\tab Duration:  24:51 min. \par
\par
{\f1\b WOODWIND QUINTET:\par }
\par
Woodwind Quintet:\u160 ? Three American Perennials\u160 ?for woodwind quintet (1974)\par
 \tab The movements are respectively ironical, expansive, and humorous. \par
\tab I. Folk Dance, II. Sea Chanty, III. Ragtime\par
\tab Duration:  12:28\par
\par
Hope is Kindled for woodwind quintet  (2023)\par
\tab Quietly optimistic.\par
\tab Duration:  5:25\par
\par
The Piper at the Gates of Dawn for woodwind quintet  (2023)\par
\tab Mysterious flute solo opens the piece, the others gradually entering.  The middle section is a \ldblquote Hymn to the Sun.\rdblquote   The mysterious music returns.\par
\tab Duration:  7:00\par
\par
Hymn of Hope for woodwind quintet  (2023)\par
\tab Inspired by Vaughan Williams\rquote  Prelude to \ldblquote The 49th Parallel,\rdblquote  this piece begins with a searching introduction, then an original hymn, a return to the intro music, a repeat of the hymn in a new key, and a coda.  The effect is joyous, tragic and uplifting, all at the same time.\par
\tab Duration:  4:00\par
\par
\par
{\f1\b WIND OCTET:\par }
\par
\ldblquote Audubon\rdblquote  for wind octet (2 oboes, 2 clarinets, 2 Fr.horns, 2 bassoons); one movement (2006)\u160 ? \par
\tab Musical portrait of the ideals and achievements of John James Audubon.\par
\tab Duration:  11:20\par
\par
{\f1\b FOR CLARINET AND ORCHESTRA:\par }
\par
The View from Carew:\u160 ? Romance for clarinet & orchestra (2000)\par
\tab This piece can stand alone but it is also the second movements of my clarinet concerto.\par
\tab Duration:  10:51\par
\par
Concerto for Bb Clarinet & Orchestra.  three movements (2007) \par
\tab Duration:  30:17\par
\par
Concerto for Cello & Strings with A clarinet.\u160 ? four movements (2006)\par
\tab Written for Bulgarian cellist Kalin Ivanov who premiered it in Carnegie Hall.\par
\tab I. Hymns & Fugues, II. Bulgarian Blues, III. Sorbet, IV. Finale.\u160 ?\par
\tab Duration:  22:40\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Here is an article about my clarinet-cello-piano trios.\par
\par
{\f1\b A Clarinetist\rquote s Journey of the Spirit \u160 ? by Joe Rosen\par }
\par
(printed in The Clarinet magazine, September 2007)\par
\par
\tab\ldblquote What music is this?\u160 ? Chamber music with clarinet, sure, but by whom?\rdblquote\u160 ?\par
\par
\tab Radio reception in the Pennsylvania mountains fades, recovers, then fades again, exasperating drivers.\u160 ? Fear of missing the announcer\rquote s tag forced me to pull over and wait for the coda.\u160 ? Finally came the revelation:\u160 ? Rick Sowash.\u160 ? New to me.\u160 ? I made note and hightailed it home to New York City.\par
\par
\tab A Google later I learned that I had heard one of no less than fifteen trios for clarinet, cello and piano by this 57-year old Cincinnati composer. \u160 ? Among my best friends are a cellist and pianist.\u160 ? I thought, why not? and ordered the sheet music directly from the composer at his website.\par
\par
\tab My cellist and pianist friends joined me twice a week, for seven weeks and played through all the trios in the order in which they were written, an extraordinary journey.\u160 ? Then we played them through all over again, thrilled to find memorable tunes, rich tonal harmonies, intricate counterpoint and an astonishing variety of moods, ranging from humor to tragedy.\par
\tab \par
\tab These trios were written during the past eight years for the composer\rquote s French friends, \ldblquote les Gavottes,\rdblquote  a Riviera-based professional trio.\u160 ? They recorded the first three on their CD \ldblquote Enchantement d\rquote avril\rdblquote  and have performed a half dozen of the trios, most notably at the Cannes Film Festival.\u160 ? Les Gavottes have not found time to perform or even read all the music Sowash has written for them; my friends and I are the first musicians to play through all of Sowash\rquote s trios.\par
\par
\tab The first trio is entitled \ldblquote Journey of the Spirit,\rdblquote  a title which might apply collectively to\u160 ? these fifteen works.\u160 ? Its four movements proceed from a darkly mysterious opening in A minor, through a Romantic interlude in G major, to a probing plainchant in E major, to a Hallelujah-like finale in Eb major.\u160 ? It\rquote s a journey from doubt to faith.\par
\par
\tab Trio #2, Enchantment of April, gives a nod to the life-affirming Miramax film of a few years back entitled \ldblquote Enchanted April.\rdblquote\u160 ? We\rquote re in Bb and Eb major and it\rquote s all sweetness and light.\par
\par
\tab The zig-zag pattern of these trios is apparent in the contrasting Trio #3, Shadows of November in A minor.\u160 ? The outer movements invite rough, energetic playing while the middle movement, a farewell to Autumn, is some of the saddest music we\rquote ve ever played.\par
\par
\tab There are some challenging licks in these trios, but virtuoso display is not what this music is about.\u160 ? Solid intermediate players can easily handle most of the trios.\u160 ? Expressivity is what\rquote s required.\par
\par
\tab Conversation of the Trees is the subtitle for #4, in D minor, offering five movements of lively \lquote chatter\rquote  between the three instruments, which are made of wood, after all, and wood comes from trees, right?\u160 ? Here the trees \ldblquote speak.\rdblquote \par
\par
\tab Trio #5, \ldblquote in classical style,\rdblquote  takes up the vocabulary of Haydn-through-Schubert, but with an American twist.\u160 ? The key is G minor, the minuet is tongue-in-cheek, the variations on an original American-sounding hymn-tune are colorful and funny and touching.\u160 ? All of the major themes of the first three movements recur in the rollicking Finale.\par
\par
\tab Again by sharp contrast comes the lengthy Trio #6, Goddess of the Moon, with a Debussy-like atmosphere, impressionistic and ambiguous, and cast in the gorgeous key of Db major.\u160 ? The movements are entitled:\u160 ? Prologue, Nocturne, Interlude, Scherzo and Epilogue.\u160 ? We performed this trio in concert and found that audiences want to applaud after the rousing Scherzo, thinking the piece has ended.\par
\par
\tab It\rquote s a zig-zag again from lush, long #6 to short, snappy, funny #7 \ldblquote The Philosopher Visits a Country Fair\rdblquote  in one movement.\u160 ? In A major, this one reminded us of Bernstein\rquote s Candide Overture.\u160 ? The country fair bubbles along in changing meters while the grumpy philosopher is depicted by a noble, pompous hymn-tune in 3/4.\u160 ? The two musics are then combined and get along beautifully.\par
\par
\tab Self-portraits are usual for painters, rare among composers.\u160 ? Trio #8 offer Two Self-portraits, both in Eb minor.\u160 ? First \ldblquote as a fool,\rdblquote  a clunky, hilarious four-part round with a\u160 ? contrasting pastoral section in C major.\u160 ? Then the deeply felt, \ldblquote as a sage\rdblquote  with a C major middle section once again, this time with a starry-night feel.\par
\par
\tab From self-portrayal, the composer moved to portraying \ldblquote Five Women\rdblquote  in Trio #9 in F major.\u160 ? They are the women in the composer\rquote s life and his movement titles describe the ladies thus:\u160 ? Merry & Mystical, In the Process of Becoming, Mother of My Children, Beautiful & Sad, and The Vitality of Emilie.\u160 ? This is the trio with the greatest variety of styles.\par
\par
\tab The next two trios are lighter and easier.\u160 ? \ldblquote Winds of May\rdblquote  is #10 in Bb major, with movements entitled Morning, Deep Forest, Wildflowers and Sunset.\u160 ? #11 in G major is a nostalgic remembrance of good times, entitled \ldblquote We Sang, We Danced.\rdblquote  \u160 ? The last movement is a very funny Tango, the only one in all the trios.\par
\par
\tab The longest and most challenging trio is #12 in Eb major, \ldblquote Voyageurs,\rdblquote  an epic homage to Canada.\u160 ? The first movement, \ldblquote Geese in Flight,\rdblquote  captures the V-formation flight pattern of Canada geese with a figure that rises in the clarinet while falling simultaneously in the cello.\u160 ? \ldblquote Song of the Voyageurs\rdblquote  evokes the hardiness of the French trappers with what sounds like a Breton folksong.\u160 ? Canada\rquote s natural wonders are depicted in the last two movements:\u160 ? \ldblquote Starshadows on Snow\rdblquote  and \ldblquote A Majestic Land.\rdblquote\u160 ? This music has a Sibelius-like orchestral breadth and ambition.\par
\par
\tab Thirteen is famously the unlucky number.\u160 ? Trio #13 in Eb minor, though a joy to play, is alternately sad and furious.\u160 ? The two movements, Passacaglia and Fugue, are played with hardly a pause between them, since the fugue subject grows right out of the Passacaglia tune.\u160 ? Indeed, at the height of the fugue, the Passacaglia tune recurs in the bass while the couterpoint rages overhead.\u160 ? This trio is boldly \lquote dedicated to the victims of Bush and Bin Laden,\rquote  a mournful, angry response to current events.\par
\par
\tab There are two un-numbered trios, both chamber transcriptions of orchestral works.\u160 ? \ldblquote The View from Carew,\rdblquote  originally a rhapsody in Eb major for clarinet and orchestra, evokes the sublime view of the Ohio Valley that is to be seen atop Carew Tower, the tallest building in Cincinnati. \u160 ?\par
\par
\tab The other and most recent trio is a transcription of the composer\rquote s new Concerto for Cello and Strings with Clarinet, written in the Fall of \lquote 06.\u160 ? It\rquote s a cello concerto alright, but the clarinet seems unwilling to accept this and constantly tries to upstage the soloist.\u160 ? As in trio #7, the key is A major and the score calls for the A clarinet.\u160 ? After the dark anger of #13 and the deep sighs of \ldblquote Carew\rdblquote  the mood finally turns joyful again in this final trio.\u160 ? The four movements are:\u160 ? Hymns & Fugues, Bulgarian Blues, Sorbet (a 28-second bagatelle) and the improbable Finale, written in the Reggae/Dixieland style known as \lquote Ska.\rquote \par
\par
\tab I\rquote ll admit to being a little obsessed with this composer but the rewards of playing his music are very great.\u160 ? Part of the fun, for me, was that, when I started playing his music, almost no one seemed to have heard of him.\u160 ? That\rquote s changing.\u160 ? Kalin Ivanov premiered his cello concerto in Carnegie Hall in April, \lquote 07.\u160 ? Rick met Kalin in my apartment while attending a home concert of his music which I had organized.\par
\par
\tab In discovering these trios and the many other Sowash clarinet works (over fifty!) we\rquote ve also made a friend.\u160 ? Rick has attended and emceed performances we\rquote ve done in Manhattan, Long Island, Cleveland, Cincinnati and Waterloo, Ontario.\u160 ? He\rquote s even written two works specifically for me:\u160 ? Three Bagatelles for Clarinet & Bassoon and \ldblquote Audubon,\rdblquote  his only wind octet.\par
\par
\tab It\rquote s been a Journey of the Spirit.\u160 ? And it all started with a half-heard broadcast in the mountains of Pennsylvania.\par
\par
\par
\tab -- Joe Rosen is a passionate and very active amateur clarinetist based in New York City. \u160 ?\par
\tab -- For information about Rick Sowash\rquote s CDs and sheet music, go to:\u160 ? www.sowash.com.\par }}}